# Terms raw

The file contains a copy of definitions from https://github.com/sudara/dspjargon/tree/master/definitions, which aren't in the landing page yet.

## [Pink Noise](#pink-noise)
*1/f noise*


## [Polar Form](#polar_form)

A notation for complex numbers that uses sine and cosine instead of real and imaginary numbers.


## [Pole Zero Analysis](#pole-zero-analysis)


---

1. https://www.dsprelated.com/freebooks/filters/Pole_Zero_Analysis_I.html


## [Poles](#poles)

The name comes from plotting the magnitude of the transfer function as a function of z.

Something something denominator approaching infinity.

> A point, or a value of z for which the equation is equal to infinity is called a pole. A point, or a value z for which the equation is equal to zero is called a zero. The location of poles and zeros can tell you a lot about the frequency response of a filter.



---

https://sound.stackexchange.com/a/24640


## [Power](#power)

Power is the rate of energy per time unit.

In a signal, power is proportional to amplitude squared.

Unlike the analog world, which measures power in Watts, in dsp, power doesn't have a physical unit. 


## [Power Spectral Density](#power_spectral_density)
*Power Spectrum*



## [Quadrature Oscillator](#quadrature-oscillator)

An [oscillator](oscillator) that produces values for both [sine](sine) and [cosine](cosine).



## [Radian](#radian)

A unit of measure, like [degrees](#degrees) but expressed with π.

1 radian is the angle made at the center of a circle by an arc whose length is equal to the radius of the circle.

A full circle has 2π radians.

Rad for short. So rad.


## [Rectification](#rectification)

Absolute value.


## [Recursive Filter](#recursive)


## [Rolloff](#rolloff)

The slope / steepness of a [filter's](#filter) frequency response

The units are usually expressed in [db](#decibel) per octave.

Also used as a noun to specify the transition region between a [passband](#passband) and a [stopband](#stopband).


## [Sample](#sample)

A single value from a [discrete](#discrete) signal.

Samples are usually evenly spaced in time, each one represents a value at that point in time. 


## [Sample Rate](#sample_rate)
*Sampling frequency*
*Fs*

How many [discrete](#discrete) [samples](#sample) per second.

CD is 44,100 samples per second. Film is 48,000 samples per second.

The sample rate determines the highest frequency that can be stored. See [Nyquist](#nyquist).


## [Sawtooth](#sawtooth)



## [Sideband](#sideband)

The additional spectral components above and below a [modulated](#modulation) frequency, such as in [FM synthesis](#frequency-modulation-synthesis).


## [Significand](#significand)
*Significant digits*

The part of the floating point

Sometimes [Mantissa](#mantissa) is used interchangeably with this term.


## [Simple Harmonic Motion](#simple-harmonic-motion)

The underlying physical oscillation that is responsible for sinusoidal movement. 

Air molecules are temporarily displaced when hit by sound waves, their vibration back and forth is Simple Harmonic Motion.

Think of a weight on a spring or a pendulum. 

--- 

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Simple_harmonic_motion


## [Sine](#sine)

Given an angle in a triangle, sine is equal to ratio of the length of the side opposite to the hypotenuse. 

On the unit circle (where the radius of 1 is the hypotenuse), it's the value of the y coordinate. 

One of the three main trigonometric functions.

---
1. http://youtu.be/gZNm7L96pfY?t=48m35s
2. https://www.khanacademy.org/math/geometry/hs-geo-trig/hs-geo-trig-ratios-intro/a/finding-trig-ratios-in-right-triangles


## [Sinusoid](#sinusoid)
*Sine Wave*

A [periodic](#periodic) signal generated by the mathematical function `sin`.

---

https://www.dsprelated.com/freebooks/mdft/Sinusoids.html


## [Spectrum](#spectrum)

A noun referring to what the [Fourier transform](#fourier-transform) produces, the [magnitude](#magnitude) and [phase](#phase) of each of the frequency components.

Data in the [frequency domain](#frequency-domain).

See: [Cepstrum](#cepstrum).


## [State Space Modeling](#state-space-modeling)


## [Stopband](#stopband)

A range of frequencies that do not pass through a [filter](#filer) at all, or are fully [attenuated](#attenuation) by the filter.

The other frequencies will be in the [passband](#stopband) or in the [rolloff](#rolloff).


## [Superposition](#superposition)
*Superposition principle*
*Superposition property*

When two signals are summed and then go through a filter, the result is the same as when they go through the filter individually and are summed afterwards.

When a filter or system obeys this principle, it's called [linear](#linear).


## [System](#system)

Something that produces one or more outputs when zero or more inputs.

Often used as a synonym to a [filter](#filter).


## [Taps](#taps)



## [Time Domain](#time-domain)

An array of numbers, each number representing the value of that signal at that particular moment in time.

The default way we store a signal and convert it from electronic information into digital information.

Mathematically, when the independent variable is a time index.


## [Time Invariant](#time-invariant)

A [system](#system) that behaves the same at any point in time.

A sample going through a [filter](#filter) is always going to have the same output no matter WHEN it goes through.


## [Time Series](#time-series)

A collection of values taken at equally spaced points in time.


## [Transfer function](#transfer-function)

Frequency response of a [filter](#filter). How a filter behaves in the in the [frequency domain](#frequency-domain).

Ratio of the output frequency response to the input frequency response. How much of the input "transfers" to the output?

Calculated by taking the [z-transform](#z-transform) of both sides of the [difference equation](#difference-equation).


## [Unity gain](#unity-gain)

Input equals output.

Mostly used in audio engineering.


## [Upsample](#upsample)

Increase the [sampling rate](#sample-rate), usually with some method of [interpolation](#interpolation).

Opposite of [downsample](#downsample).


## [Vector](#vector)

In math, a vector is a [magnitude](#magnitude) and an [angle](#angle) on a plane.

In C++ (and some other languages), this is an "array" of values, for example a collection of [floats](#float). Unlike an array, there can be a variable number of values.


## [Wave](#wave)

Most of the time people mean [signal](#signal).

Sometimes they mean an audio file, such as WAV, which is an audio file format standard.


## [Waveform](#waveform)

Two meanings:

1. The shape of a single [cycle](#cycle) of a periodic [signal](#signal) such as a [sine](#sine), [sawtooth](#sawtooth), or [square](#square), for example visualized on an oscilloscope. 

2. A [signal](#signal)'s [amplitude](#amplitude) graphed over time, as you would see in a [DAW](#DAW).


## [Waveguide](#waveguide)

A network of nodes that delay/allpass the signal and send out signal in both directions (to/from) the node. The total energy in the network is lossless (the same) at any given point in time.


---
1. https://ccrma.stanford.edu/files/papers/stanm31.pdf


## [Wave Shaping](#wave_shaping)

A fancy name for processing a signal, usually with the intention of adding extra harmonics or distortion. 


1. https://docs.juce.com/master/tutorial_dsp_convolution.html#tutorial_dsp_convolution_what_is_waveshaping


## [Window Function](#window_function)
*Windowing*

Smooths out the input to a [FFT](#FFT) to increase accuracy, as the FFT assumes the input is one cycle of a periodic signal.

It fades in and out the input signal so that it's loopable without [discontinuities](#discontinuities).

---
1. [Understanding FFTs and Windowing](https://download.ni.com/evaluation/pxi/Understanding%20FFTs%20and%20Windowing.pdf)


## XOR

*Exclusive OR*
*Bitwise XOR*

Inspect the individual bits of a number, returning 1 when the bits are different from each other and 0 when the bits are the same (both 1 or both 0).

The caret ^ is used in most computer languages including C++ and Javascript.




## [Z-plane](#z-plane)
*Complex plane*

A way to graph [complex numbers](#complex-number), usually [z](#z), where the x-axis representing the real part (Re) and the y-axis representing the imaginary part (Im).


## [Z-transform](#z-transform)

Maps a function of `n` ([discrete](#discrete) time such as in a [filter](#filter)), to a function of [z](#z) in the [frequency domain](#frequency-domain).

This is the type of thing that a Fourier transform does.

It's the [discrete time](#discrete) version of the [Laplace transform](#laplace-transform).


## [z](z)

z is a [complex](#complex-number) variable used to represent "some angular frequency" when working in the [frequency domain](#frequency-domain).

It is normally defined as:

$$ z = e^{jωt}$$

See [angular frequency](#angular-frequency).
---

https://www.khanacademy.org/science/electrical-engineering/ee-circuit-analysis-topic/ee-ac-analysis/v/ee-complex-exponential-magnitude


## [Zero Order Hold](#zero-order-hold)
*ZOH*

The most naive way to reconstruct a [continuous](#continuous-time) signal from a set of [sampled values](#sapmles).

Not actually how a [DAC](#DAC) works these days, but people imagine it to be [1].

---

1. https://youtu.be/cIQ9IXSUzuM


## [Zero Padding](#zero-padding)

Adding zeros at the end of a signal.

This is common to do during [DFT](#DFT) when the signal length is shorter than the window size.


## [Zero-phase Windowing](#zero_phase_windowing)

A technique used when computing the [FFT](#fft) where the signal is split in half and zeros are added in the middle of the signal.

This gives the benefit of increases the fidelity of the FFT while keeping the signal as symmetrical as possible.

---

1. https://dsp.stackexchange.com/questions/18938/merits-of-zero-phase-zero-padding/
